hi everyone thank you so much for being
here thank you for having me um i am
super excited to talk about
marketing at clavio and generally how to
build a hyper growth marketing engine
so um before we get in let me um i'd
like to take a little bit of time to
introduce myself
so my story is
interesting i started my career as a as
an engineer and to be honest with you i
was really bad at it i was probably one
of the worst software engineers you
could meet so i called myself a failed
engineer
and then by a long kind of circuitous
route i ended up in marketing and for
the longest time i didn't really believe
in the power of brand and storytelling
my whole focus was
growth performance data automation i
just loved that and then after a
long time i started to think oh gosh i
can't really change any consumers minds
with all of that stuff if i really need
to understand
customers aspirations and figure out how
to emotionally resonate with them i
really need to understand brand and
that's when i kind of you know
understood the power of brand and
storytelling and so i was able to bring
the two kind of halves of marketing
together so i call myself a reluctant
marketer just because i came at the
kind of a zig zaggy way
and today
my
role is focused on helping build this
engine so i i think of myself as a
scientist who's also a marketer who's
trying to bring the
data and the science and the art and the
creativity together to achieve the best
outcomes possible
so i've kind of gone
around a little bit so i've worked in
high
hyper growth companies big companies
small companies not hyper growth
companies
this it's been a lot of different
flavors
and the one thing i will say is hyper
growth companies are just a completely
different animal the the kind of
decisions you have to take the kind of
choices you have to make the kind of
trade-offs you have to make
are not
um the same as in any other kind of
growth environment so i'm hoping i can
share with you all
some of the things that i'm
thinking through and the the some of the
things that i'm building uh at klavier
and what i've built in the past uh that
might help
um
so one quick thing about cleveland
before i joined we've uh were a very
very heavy word of mouth driven company
so a lot our product has an amazing
product market fit
we have tons of uh raving fans they
spread the word we have this beautiful
virtuous ecosystem sorry loop of people
who talk about us they come back and
more people come
but marketing was completely in its
infancy and so my
mandate from our ceo on the board was
figure out how to make this more of a
professional organization and so you
have this this company that's already
growing crazily on top of that you come
in and you're trying to build a
marketing engine to go from zero to 60
at the same pace and the growth of the
company it's a pretty um interesting and
unique challenge
um so the so i wanted to talk about some
of the lessons i have learned and some
things that i've kind of put in place as
we started to build this what i call the
agile modern marketing engine so let's
dig in
so the first um first thing for me is
align with the ceo i mean this is
fairly obvious and straightforward
the the thing i want to point out here
is what people don't realize is how much
of this has to happen and how early on
so to be honest with you almost every
company that i've done in the past you
know three years or three companies or
so
i started this process of aligning
aligning with the ceo
in my interview process it's how deep
that gets
we i start digging into what is the
company strategy what is the product
strategy what is the product vision
what is the path to market leadership um
what are the different go to market
options what are the assumptions we are
making
about the market and the business and
all the kind of stuff
and so
this is what is going to create a really
strong foundation and grounding of
how the company was built what were the
principles the company was built on what
is the principles the product was built
on and what we see is the extensibility
of the product and the platform
the what i have found over and over is
if you have a founder or a ceo with a
particularly large vision they're
thinking
20 years out they're thinking big
far-reaching you know wide kind of
visions and it's the job of the cmo to
bring it down
to the one year the five-year mark and
to really figure out how to distill that
down to what we can do now tomorrow you
know three years from now
so
there's a a lot of stuff there around
how to really get into the heart at the
minds of the ceo and the and the founder
um the other interesting thing about
this is um
there is a lot of stuff to figure out
with the c on what your communication
style is
um we do a lot of things together
jointly to think about the category
think about the brand how do we position
the brand how does the brand reflect
what the company should be
and if you're not communicating
seamlessly and in a certain flow
it's just really hard to get on the same
page so one of the
one of the tips that i um i have used is
in i have weekly one-on-ones with my uh
ceo who's andrew bialiki
um and then uh that's that one-on-one is
just generally to focus on here the here
and now um this is the decision we have
we've taken in marketing here's some of
the stuff we're doing here's the
progress update on a couple of things
um etc
but then i also set up these mind meld
sessions with him on a completely ad hoc
basis
and that's like two three hours long
it's what we call blue ocean thinking
and those topics might focus anywhere
from
how do we think about this this category
to what do we think the impact of
blockchain is going to be on our
business so it's as broad and
far-reaching as that because that's how
you start to really get connected
another important thing not to forget is
it very very important to know what is
your
what is the role that your ceo wants you
to play in the leadership team
there's marketing being kind of a
morphing amorphous and fluid it's
there's almost always a different role
that you're expected to play as a head
of marketing in those leadership team
meetings so super important to get
aligned and coordinated on that
the next uh not the next but in parallel
you also want to start thinking about
your team
there's you know as i've built company
sorry teams from ground up
the one thing that's been really really
clear is obviously hiring and again
that's super obvious but the the caveat
or the nuance to hiring is this which is
you have to hire at the right level for
the context you're in meaning um there
are some contexts where some functions
where you need to need to bring in
the doers the the people who can roll up
their sleeves and get it done there are
some functions where you have to bring
in the strategists the people who are
going to set the vision and the strategy
and think about how to lay the diff the
foundation for a lot of different things
and i've made mistakes on both ends um i
brought in people that were too junior
which meant that we couldn't do any of
the strategy stuff and then i brought in
people who are two senior which meant we
couldn't get any of the urgent things
done so you got to figure out how to
right size the team
my first hires at clavio the first five
were my head of brand
uh
my head of product marketing head of
performance marketing head of self-serve
and my head of analytics ops and
research
and there's a reason for those being the
top
they are all what i would call consider
really strategic
functions within marketing that you want
to bring in a pretty senior level who
can then
think about what the next two to three
three or five years looks like
and
and then i call i i call out this thing
called talent dense organization um
everybody in the team in my team right
now is focused on hiring people who
basically exhibit four characteristics
one they have to have some level of
strategy or strategic thinking they have
to be able to roll up their sleeves and
get things done even at the size that we
are
they have to demonstrate agility because
at a hyper growth company nothing is
constant nothing is static every day
brings on a new challenge every day
there is a new problem to be solved
and then the last one is eq
especially in high growth environments
stress there is nothing like a
non-stressful day every day you're going
to have all kinds of challenges and
because it's so fast-paced and dynamic
you need to have people who are centered
grounded who can have the right kind of
communication if needed who can push um
when needed and and there's a whole
bunch of things around that so
i personally have always preferred eq
over any amount of iq because that's
what makes uh strong teams
the other thing that i want to point out
is
this you cannot operate in a silo so
what i do a lot of the times is make
sure i build these communications
protocols with my head of hr cfo my head
of product and so on because they at the
end of the day they are taking your
vision and amplifying it to the rest of
the organization
last thing on this
i have made the mistake in the past of
growing faster than my process
what i mean by that is
we scale up so quickly we bring on all
of these amazing marketers
all of them are going to need
tons of things like creative and assets
and campaigns that they want to run and
there's a certain explosion in output
but if you're not organized
when you when that goes out in the
market it is sheer chaos you're not
telling a compelling story you're not
putting
um the right kinds of things in place
and so without the right kind of
processes
you're not going to get organized
particularly in a high growth
environment
so
don't grow faster than your process and
make sure you're always thinking about
if you have 10 people today how are you
going to 10 when you get to the 10x of
that number of people does your process
scale up along with you it's a super
super important
kind of future casting skill to have
the third one is so you have the
founder and the ceo on the one hand who
has a vision you have the product team
on the other hand who have a vision you
have the sales leadership team that
brings a certain level of vision
your job there is to be the person with
the best pulse on the market you have to
bring the market realities to bear to
the company strategy and say
is this actually landing the way we
wanted to are we making the right
assumptions about the market do we
know for sure that our
market segments in this way that we want
them to do we know that these
feature sets are going to be useful to
the audience that we want to go after so
there's a whole lot of market
intelligence that as marketers we have
to bring back to the organization so
what i tell my team is we have to be the
experts in
customers
customer attitudinal segments meaning
how they think how they what their
mindset is
how they are thinking about different
products all that kind of stuff and then
customer journey where they are in their
customer journey so it's not enough to
just look at demographics it's you have
to get deeper into attitudinal
segmentation so i don't know how if
you've heard of this framework called
where to play and how to win
um it was created by aj lafley who was
the ceo ceo of png it's a great
framework the way to play really defines
your market where you should put your
bets and the how to win talks about the
specific things that you can go execute
towards
um so in my team we follow that the
first things we kicked off with our head
of research
was the tam market research
segmentation and we do a lot of
different things around the customer
journey
customer journey research studies
specific questions into why do these
people switch from this solution to this
solution so we do a whole bunch of
things to surround ourselves with
customer insights and customer data and
in doing so we've become kind of the
central
uh grand central station if you will of
all of the customer insights um and we
kind of tie it with
what the cs team is hearing what the
sales team is hearing what our product
team is hearing and we merge everything
together to create almost like a 360
degree profile of the customer i cannot
tell you how important this has been in
my past
and a lot of the product led companies
as you can imagine
the there is a strong gravitational pull
towards being very very feature centric
as a company so most companies are
thinking i'm just going to build this
feature and people will come i'm going
to throw it out there give it to
marketing and they're going to figure it
out and people will come
might be true but a lot of the times
you're still
losing a lot of people on the edges
customers that don't necessarily care
about that product might might be
interested in something else so it is
the job of marketing to kind of shine a
light on
the the market
and the people that you're under serving
all right um
big big uh question that
we constantly talk about in i uh in my
in there's a we have a little cmo group
big question we talk about is how do you
balance the short term versus the long
term
you go into a new role um almost within
the next six months you're going to be
expected to show short-term results
whether it's mqls or pipeline or
customers or leads but at the same time
you know that you have to build for the
long term you know that you're going to
be expected to deliver 18 months from
now so how do you do that and the way
that i think about it is
you have to operate on two different
what i call motion reels the one motion
reel is here and now so the next quarter
next month
um next week what are the things that we
are doing the second motion reel is the
next you know eight
12 months out 18 months out what are we
trying to do and the job of the cmo in
my opinion is bridging the two you're
always trying to bring the two together
saying okay we're doing all of this
stuff that just kind of adds up to the
long term
but the other thing i've tried to do
which has been pretty successful is
i
uh challenge my team to come up with one
low hanging fruit opportunity per month
so every month
each of my directs and me we sit down
together and say what can we do that we
can jump on this month that we can go
find some success in or even fail for
that matter but learn something from
and i can tell you it builds a
tremendous amount of confidence in the
team
because you're starting to kind of
accumulate those wins and that just
creates this magic word called momentum
which you know in a new when you go into
a new role you need
um and then this is a pretty dramatic
statement but when you go into a new
role you're you've been basically hired
because you know something really really
well
but
um
in the last three companies i've been at
every single time six months in i'm like
okay throw out this new this old
playbook we have to create something new
because you're outgrowing that playbook
so quickly that you have to be very
agile in thinking about what's worked
for me in the past take some of those
learnings some of those timeless classic
things add on a few things and create
new ones and definitely discard a few
that don't work
for instance one
one thing that we've found is
self-serve motion for us
i've always felt it is one of the most
incredibly powerful
go-to-market motions
one in the previous company what worked
as self-serve is actually not working in
the same way here so we've had to change
our definition of self-serve
and if and that's the kind of playbook
that we have to create
all of this is on a bedrock of
experiments so i dry i asked my team to
think about
how do you create the right
experimentation mindset and dna in the
in the company
so with each of the stuff that we take
on we are always looking at how do we
create an experiment based on either
some kind of data or gut based
hypothesis and then how do we create
what i call a stacked experimentation
culture so run the experiment learn fail
um or improve and then use that to go on
to the next one and just it just keeps
stacking up and the sum total of that
becomes this institutional knowledge and
intuition
that is extremely critical for any
marketing team however data oriented it
is
um so this brings me to the last point
on the slide which is
intuition is extremely extremely
critical particularly in a high growth
environment when you're having to take
almost like lightning speed decisions on
in some areas you don't have the data
every problem is new you're just think
your everyday brings on a new either
opportunity or challenge
you're going to have to have people who
can
use all of the information and the
historical data and say all right i
think these things have worked for us so
let's go try this thing
and so that's the kind of culture you
want to create in every level of the
organization
and the last one is
um
a little bit of a
personal kind of
anecdote
i have been extremely bad at this which
is i have not i've not prepared myself
for a roller coaster every single job i
go to which in one of these hyper growth
environments i'm like i'm just going to
go do this and everything is going to be
fine but you are going to have ups and
downs things work things don't work
every single day is a new day
so
what i what i tell my team is it's about
this idea of
you're forming and norming right all of
us are familiar with that but instead of
storming we just have to get to
performing as quickly as possible and
then from performing you have to get to
outperforming as quickly and that's kind
of the gradation that we or the life
cycle that we have to go to
and in all of this
my role as a leader is
holding both these ideas of compassion
and
accountability when i mean compassion
it's about making sure that people are
delivering at their best they're they're
getting the best out of this experience
but at the same time you also want to
make sure that you're
holding people accountable and those two
for the longest time i didn't believe
they could go together but they do you
have to have that
that kind of dichotomy
it's okay to screw up and man i have
been there so many times in fact i just
had a conversation with my ceo a couple
of weeks ago where he said everything is
going great how are you feeling about it
i was like
yeah i don't think i'm doing that great
and so i
he asked me why i said there's so many
things i wish i'd done better or could
have
i wish i had known better and he said
this amazing words which is look
you're trying your best but we are on a
journey together we are on an adventure
together don't ever forget that and
that's the kind of culture that i want
to create in my team which is it's about
an adventure it's about you don't really
know where you're going you have to be
focused on the
sure the goals to get there
but
consider this as a as a really big big
adventure that we can go after
so i i tell my team about this idea of
hold your goals tightly but your path
lightly
because the path is always going to
change as long as you hold your goals
really close to your heart it doesn't
matter how what path it's going to take
you'll get to those goals
so
um that's basically the some of the
big lessons i have learned and some of
the things that i wanted to share with
you all just to recap
even though this is obvious
getting aligned with the ceo and their
vision is extremely critical for
the marketing team particularly when
you're thinking about creating or
recreating
and redesigning a brand from ground up
building the right size team hiring the
right people who can both what i call
shoot and aim and aim and shoot at the
same time it's
extremely critical it is not an easy
thing to do hiring generally is very
hard but hiring the right people is
exponentially hard
but that's where you get the highest
leverage once you have the the right
people in the team building the right
processes that go
alongside or that rap around the team
again critical because otherwise it will
end up in chaos
being taking on the the ownership of the
customer and the non-customers and more
importantly actually the what i would
call the rejecters the people that have
rejected your product
is is extremely important as well
because you must know the market more
than anybody else in the company
balancing the small stuff with the big
stuff running on two speeds
so the here and now and then the mid
medium to long term
again another very crucial skill both as
a leader as well as the
skill that you want to
bring down to your people and then
finally
creating a playbook like really creating
thinking about what's going to work in
this environment what are the levels
what are the growth tactics that are
going to work and creating that playbook
for yourself that's unique to that
situation
is super important and finally don't
forget
this is as much about the team as much
as about you
and
you have to be
careful about how you manage your own
time energy and the amount of work that
you're putting into it because the if
you're not taking care of yourself
you may not be taking care of your team
as much
[Music]
you